# Working Code Isn't Enough

1. In a Tactical programming approach, your main focus is to get something working, such as a new feature or a bug fix. However, tactical programming makes it nearly impossible to produce a good system design.
2. Working code isn’t enough. It’s not acceptable to introduce unnecessary complexities in order to finish your current task faster. The most important thing is the long-term structure of the system. Most of the code in any system is written by extending the existing code base, so your most important job as a developer is to facilitate those future extensions. Your primary goal must be to produce a great design, which also happens to work. This is strategic programming.
3. A huge up-front investment, such as trying to design the entire system, won’t be effective. This is the waterfall method, and we know it doesn’t work. The ideal design tends to emerge in bits and pieces, as you get experience with the system. Conversely, if you program tactically, you will finish your first projects 10–20% faster, but over time your development speed will slow as complexity accumulates. It won’t be long before you’re programming at least 10–20% slower. You will quickly give back all of the time you saved at the beginning, and for the rest of system’s lifetime you will be developing more slowly than if you had taken the strategic approach.
4. Good design doesn’t come for free. It has to be something you invest in continually, so that small problems don’t accumulate into big ones. Fortunately, good design eventually pays for itself, and sooner than you might think.
