# General-Purpose Modules Are Deeper

* The sweet spot is to implement new modules in a somewhat general-purpose fashion. The phrase “somewhat general-purpose” means that the module’s functionality should reflect your current needs, but its interface should not. Instead, the interface should be general enough to support multiple uses. The interface should be easy to use for today’s needs without being tied specifically to them.
* One of the most important elements of software design is determining who needs to know what, and when. When the details are important, it is better to make them explicit and as obvious as possible, such as the revised implementation of the backspace operation. Hiding this information behind an interface just creates obscurity.
* It is easier to recognize a clean general-purpose class design than it is to create one. Here are some questions you can ask yourself, which will help you to find the right balance between general-purpose and special-purpose for an interface.
  * What is the simplest interface that will cover all my current needs? E.g. `deleteTextAtPosition` as opposed to `handleBackspace` and `handleDelete` methods for a text editor use-case
  * In how many situations will this method be used? E.g. if we have single use for all interface methods, it's quite possible we are stretching ourselves a bit too thin
  * Is this API easy to use for my current needs? E.g. if the current API created makes it cumbersome to handle the use-case we created it for, that's a red flag
