# Different Layer - Different Abstraction

* If a system contains adjacent layers with similar abstractions, this is a red flag that suggests a problem with the class decomposition. When adjacent layers have similar abstractions, the problem often manifests itself in the form of pass-through methods.
* Pass-through methods make classes shallower: they increase the interface complexity of the class, which adds complexity, but they don’t increase the total functionality of the system.
* Having methods with the same signature is not always bad. The important thing is that each new method should contribute significant functionality. Pass-through methods are bad because they contribute no new functionality.
* The decorator design pattern (also known as a “wrapper”) is one that encourages API duplication across layers. A decorator object takes an existing object and extends its functionality; it provides an API similar or identical to the underlying object, and its methods invoke the methods of the underlying object.
* The motivation for decorators is to separate special-purpose extensions of a class from a more generic core. However, decorator classes tend to be shallow: they introduce a large amount of boilerplate for a small amount of new functionality. Decorator classes often contain many pass-through methods.
* The interface of a class should normally be different from its implementation: the representations used internally should be different from the abstractions that appear in the interface. If the two have similar abstractions, then the class probably isn’t very deep.
* Another form of API duplication across layers is a pass-through variable, which is a variable that is passed down through a long chain of methods. The possible solutions to fix this are:
  * see if there is already an object shared between the topmost and bottommost methods
  * store the information in a global variable (not recommended)
  * introduce a context object
