# Quotes

1. Bring the pain forward -- this could be anything between writing documentation or performing integration tests
2. Defects are fixed most cheaply if they are never checked in to version control in the first place
3. For some agile delivery teams, “done” means released into production. This is the ideal situation for a software development project. However, it is not always practical to use this as a measure of done. So we will dial back to the next best option and say that a functionality is “done” once it has been successfully showcased, that is, demonstrated to, and tried by, representatives of the user community, from a production-like environment.
4. All aspects of each of your testing, staging, and production environments, specifically the configuration of any third-party elements of your system, should be applied from version control through an automated process.
5. Software releases should be automated and frequent.
6. Every time a change is committed to version control, the expectation is that it will pass all of its tests, produce working code, and can be released into production i.e. is a release candidate. This is the starting assumption. The job of a continuous integration system is to disprove this assumption, to show that a particular RC is not fit to make it into production.
7. A working software application can be usefully decomposed into four components: executable code, configuration, host environment, and data. If any of them changes, it can lead to a change in the behavior of the application. Therefore we need to keep all four of these components under control and ensure that a change in any one of them is verified.
