1. Continuous integration requires that every time somebody commits any change, the entire application is built and a comprehensive set of automated tests is run against it. Crucially, if the build or test process fails, the development team stops whatever they are doing and fixes the problem immediately. The goal of continuous integration is that the software is in a working state all the time.

2. Pre-req for CI:
   * Check in regularly on the mainline branch (at least once a day)
   * Create comprehensive automated test-suite
   * Keep build and unit-test process short (max 10 mins, better 5 mins, ideal 1.5 mins)
   * Careful configuration management, not just of source code, but also of test data, database scripts, build scripts, and deployment scripts
   * configuration management of third-party dependencies, libraries, and components
   * Ensure automated tests, including smoke-tests can be run on the developer machine

3. Different types of automated tests are:
   * Unit tests are written to test the behavior of small pieces of your application in isolation (say, a method, or a function, or the interactions between a small group of them). They can usually be run without starting the whole application. They do not hit the database (if your application has one), the filesystem, or the network. They don’t require your application to be running in a production-like environment. Unit tests should run very fast—your whole suite, even for a large application, should be able to run in under ten minutes
   * Component tests test the behavior of several components of your application. Like unit tests, they don’t always require starting the whole application. However, they may hit the database, the filesystem, or other systems (which may be stubbed out). Component tests typically take longer to run
   * Acceptance tests test that the application meets the acceptance criteria decided by the business, including both the functionality provided by the application and its characteristics such as capacity, availability, security, and so on. Acceptance tests are best written in such a way that they run against the whole application in a production-like environment

4. Some essential CI practices:
   * Don't check-in on a broken build
   * Always run tests locally before committing (assuming we are on trunk-based development but a good advice in any case)
   * Wait for tests to pass before moving on
   * Never go home on a broken build
   * Always be prepared to revert to a previous revision. This revert should always work in theory before of point 1
   * Time-box fix of broken commit before reverting
   * Don't comment out failing tests

5. Suggested practices:
   * Adopt XP (extreme programming)
   * fail the build for architectural reasons
   * fail the build for slow unit tests
   * fail the build for warnings and code style breaches (checkstyle, findbugs etc.)

6. 
